---
title: "Book Review — Sula"
date: "2018-09-16 20:22:17"
slug: "book-review-sula"
status: "publish"
type: "post"
author: "Solomonjesse"
source: "voiceofanafricanchild.WordPress.2019-03-12.xml"
originalUrl: "https://voiceofanafricanchild.com/2018/09/16/book-review-sula/"
categories: ["Book Review"]
tags: ["Art", "life", "school"]
excerpt: ""
commentsCount: 0
---

Sula is amongst the numerous Toni Morrison’s publications, set in Medallion, a black community in Ohio. The book’s timing stretches over half of the 20th century, starting from 1918 and ending in 1965. In this book, Morrison addresses the social dynamics of the blacks in America with a specific focus on two female friends, Sula and Nel. Most of the events unfolding in this novel, arranged chronologically according to the years they happen, revolve around these two characters, and seek to highlight how relationships can withstand the test of time whilst its members interact with the community at large, concurrently. The Bottom, which is the black’s locale, is set parallel to the Medallion valley, where the whites live, to bring to light the relationship between these two different races at the time. Whilst the whites rarely visit Bottom, the blacks often go to the valley in search of employment opportunities such as working at The Bridge, which they are mostly denied. Any intimate relationship between the blacks and the whites, despite the two being close neighbors, is regarded a taboo, which emphasizes the racial segregation in the then community. For example, Sula is considered an outcast in The Bottom because she is rumored to have had sexual relations with the white men.

In this book, Toni Morrison explores the idea of family, friendship and women empowerment. A striking example portrayed by the author, once again, is the friendship between Sula and Nel. It can be argued that at the time these two meet, both of them are disempowered by their immediate family members. Sula, for example, is perpetually neglected by her mother who focuses more on having frequent but casual sex with men around The Bottom. Given that Sula’s father had already died, she grows up with minimum parental tutelage. Nel, on the other hand, is born to an absentee father, Mr. Wright, who always works as a bargeman and rarely comes back home to spend time with his family. Her mother, having a strong Christian background, forcefully cultures her into being someone else, a figure that would be accepted and respected in the society rather than remaining true to herself. Her mother constantly tells her to not sit idly but instead, “…pull your nose.” (Sula 28) Nel’s mother’s continued efforts in getting her to pull her nose despite the fact that Nel doesn’t like it signifies how while growing up, she is forced to adopt a personality that she does not necessarily like.

The bond of friendship between Sula and Nel grows stronger with each passing day. For example, Nel’s quits her dream of leaving Medallion in order to discover herself, and redefine her ‘me-ness,’ when she meets Sula. Morrison narrates how the two grow so close that ‘…a compliment to one was a compliment to another, and a cruelty to one, a challenge to another” (Sula 84). Many are the instances when the two stand for each other during the tempting times. For example, to fight the boys who taunt them every day while they are walking home from school, Sula cuts her finger, then dares the boys to imagine what she would do to them if she had the courage to do that to herself, which sends them off in fear. Morrison, in describing the Sula-Nel friendship, states that “Their meeting was fortunate, for it let them use each other to grow on” (Sula 52). Through this friendship, both Sula and Nel are able to rise above their familial constraints and discover a newer and more authentic version of themselves.

Morrison is keen to stress the importance of maintaining one’s individuality by showing the danger of losing oneself in any given relationship: be it friendship, courtship, or even marriage. This is seen when Sula seduces Jude, Nel’s husband, and has sex with him even though Sula and Nel had been close friends. Nel, having ceded her individuality and free-spirited nature to Jude in marriage, feels an aching longing when he departs and leaves her with the children.  Nel thinks, “And what am I supposed to do with these thighs now, just walk up and down these rooms? (Sula 111). This reveals her loneliness and the desperate desire to have a man, if not Jude, in her life. Sula, on the other hand, remains adamantly indifferent towards Nel’s pain of betrayal, explaining that growing up, they both viewed sex as a casual pastime, and that therefore, Nel should not harbor negative emotions in her because of the incident. In their conversation, Sula asks Nel, “About who was good. How do you know it was you?” (Sula 136)

Whether Sula’s actions and attitudes are morally acceptable or even justifiable is left for the reader to decide. However, Morrison portrays Sula as the ultimate embodiment of an empowered woman who defies the social conventions and refuses to conform to the banal and subservient position of a woman in Medallion and the black society as a whole. Later, in the book, Sula explains that the rest of the women are “Dying. Just like me. But the difference is, they dying like a stump. Me, I’m going down like one of those redwoods. I sure did live in this world” (Sula 143). By so doing, Sula brings to light the everlasting suppression that women in her society are quietly experiencing. In this conversation with Nel, Sula is able to show how by taking a different path from the rest of the Medallion women she has led a defiant, enjoyable, and in her perspective, well-lived life. Through Sula, Morrison implies that even though women who stand against oppression and seek self-liberation might be hated, the society will later come to love them for choosing to be their most authentic selves.
