---
title: "These ones went to the show"
date: "2018-10-29 15:13:18"
slug: "these-ones-went-to-the-show"
status: "publish"
type: "post"
author: "Richard"
source: "voiceofanafricanchild.WordPress.2019-03-12.xml"
originalUrl: "https://voiceofanafricanchild.com/2018/10/29/these-ones-went-to-the-show/"
categories: ["Slice of Life", "Travel", "Village Stories"]
tags: ["africa", "Art", "beating", "diapers", "kenya", "Kisii", "life", "matatu", "nairobi", "never", "peace", "school", "strength", "thing", "town"]
excerpt: ""
commentsCount: 8
---

I walked home with my ' disc' in the pocket as a result of my one-time utterance of words in mother tongue that day. It was a stone, a rather big one for a class seven kid already with a big head to carry around. But who cared though. All they wanted is for us to have perfect English pronunciation and adhere to the colonizer's language while shelving our mothers' languages at home. It was always a bother why my teachers could speak in Kisii within themselves while treating us like demons whenever we tried. You should have been there every evening; the teacher on duty calling out the names of anyone who had touched the disc that day and raining on them with whips as if they were exorcising evil spirits. Someone pointed this out to me earlier this week, comparing it to an alternate universe situation where we should have English kids beaten at the Royal Palace for speaking the Queen's language, rather than working their tongues out in practising the language of the great conquerors of Luhya land who brought Ugali civilization and the gospel of the great Jehovah Wanyonyi. I will, however, pin this conversation up for another day, as that is not the highlight of this story today.

The problem I have with writing is that once my fingers start clicking away on the keyboard, I get so excited by the endless thoughts and ideas running through my head and feel like I cannot manage to stick to the initial one. Am I not the curator of my space? What wrong is there if I start this post with a discussion into pan-Africanism and end up talking about a time when I was furiously chased by a hen? Si you guys come to this space to listen to me beat stories? But no, I will keep it grounded. I will moderate today and as a good moderator, I shall insist we stick to the topic for once. This is a good panel, we shall beat stories, laugh and I stay focused. Let me line up the puns.

Alright, so where were we. Class seven, disc, mother tongue. Oh yeah. If it so happened that you went home without punishment for holding the disc at any point through your day, the last person in possession takes it home till the next day when you all shall receive your beating. Woe unto you if it so happened that the day fell on a Friday. It meant through the weekend all you had to think about was the caning that will be the grand opening of your new week. There would, therefore, be no need to make new week resolutions as you had already been screwed before you had been screwed. On very rare occasions, you could be lucky to start afresh the next Monday with a new teacher on duty who would take the courtesy of forgiving the previous week's delinquents. It so happened that the day I carried that heavy stone home was the eve to the annual ASK show in Kisii stadium. All the way home, I begged Jesus to come to my rescue.

"Lord, remember that time when Satan made jokes that you turn stones into bread. I think now would be a really good time to show him who's boss."
<h5>I looked up to the mountain tops, where does my help come from? All I could see were bigger stones there.</h5>
So I gave up and walked home. The only genius idea I had was to convince my very strict father to sponsor me to the showground the next day and force the school to start afresh with a new disc. I braced myself, walked home, showered and did my homework before requesting my dear mother to phone him (I can't tell you why all that preparation was necessary). Almost felt like I was being a good boy for Santa. My old man surprisingly took it well and sent the required amount for transportation costs. I had no idea I required an entrance fee, which was at 100Ksh at that time. Getting into the showground with a couple of other classmates, I had to jump over the fence. On landing, I was not so lucky as there was a guard stationed right behind that part of the fence with a baton. At 12 years of age, there was no way I was going to escape a caning in school, spend fare in a rickety matatu so that I could go to receive a beating from a guard. That's a very expensive way of looking for trouble. So I told the guard to go and kiss a porcupine’s ass and I took off into the crowd.

I walked around the showground and was amazed by what was on display. My naive self found a tent with a 'mermaid' and was scared shitless for the next couple of weeks after I saw it. Other tents were displaying a headless man, a head without a body and the world's shortest woman. I did not want to push my luck with these tents because I did not have enough money to buy me some diapers for the scare that would rock my rectum. I hoped on a merry-go-round and puked like an active volcano. I am yet to go back up there in my adult life. Apparently, the world's second strongest man was a Kenyan and was displaying his prowess too. A car ran over his stomach, he pulled a truck with his bare teeth and a rope and lifted a crate of a soda with his lips. I didn't quite understand how his strength extended from his muscles to unconnected body parts like the mouth and teeth.
<h4>But I had one conclusion for sure, this was not a man you allow to marry your daughter.</h4>
With all the wild fun I had that many years ago, it is therefore not a surprise when I suggested to the other half of me to accompany me to the Nairobi ASK showground this year. The fare from town was 100 shillings which was not a problem. The entry fee was however 300 shillings, and this was quite a bother to me. I mean, what? It’s not like they were feeding me in there. I resisted the urge to jump over the fence and let my fine lady pay for her entry fee. The guards at that place looked like they were just straight from a nasty divorce and I didn't want them to vent their anger on my head with those heavy rungus they were carrying. Also, I am trying very much to pump my personality and become a well-respected model. Role model that is, not the one where I have to catwalk (Hi Lewis).

If you didn't attend the Show this year, then you really need to tell me where you spent your day. Everything was an absolute bomb. From the food carts, the chicken smokies that I ate for the first time ever, the rabbit choma (What cruel human slaughters a rabbit though), the small SGR model that was on display and several agrotech innovations. My best attractions from years ago were also present; the mermaid, the head without a body and the shortest woman in the world. I went in to see the mermaid and I wasn't as scared as I last was. Someone's daughter did not, however, have the guts. She insisted that she was too old to start looking for diapers, so I had her stay outside the tent. I will still never step foot in the head without body tent. It may sound childish to you, but I have to remind you that I come from Bondonya clan right at the feet of Sameta Hill in the great Kisii County.
<h4>Headless men, talking heads attached to no body and other bizarre occurrences will sound like a joke to you until you meet one in the dark at 10pm.</h4>
It is at that point you will realize why KICC is in the shape of a donkey's <em>mjuols.</em>

I did not get to go up the merry-go-round because I felt like I would be nauseated and puke on the fresh pair of kicks I had acquired the previous day. They also did not let me go into the bouncing castle, saying something about the age limit. I tried to convince them I did not have an ID, but my 3 strands of beard betrayed me.

We took a few photos with the madam and laughed like kids from 10 years ago. The innocence of childhood was triggered in me and for a moment I looked away from the struggles of adulthood.
<h5>Here we were, walking around believing in mermaids, savouring the moment, eating cotton candy and laughing like we were a couple of primary school kids.</h5>
Sitting in a matatu that evening watching the sun set on Nairobi as we found our way back home, I realized I was at the happiest moment of my life. I was receiving joy and radiating love; my cheeks were glowing, and my heart was at home and in peace. I was also wearing clean socks and boxers, but that is not the point here.

It is the little things in life that bring out happiness, and also the fact that you can speak Kisii without a heavy stone landing in your pocket in the name of a disc.
