---
title: "Lessons at 20"
date: "2018-09-27 00:16:42"
slug: "lessons-at-20"
status: "publish"
type: "post"
author: "Richard"
source: "voiceofanafricanchild.WordPress.2019-03-12.xml"
originalUrl: "https://voiceofanafricanchild.com/2018/09/27/lessons-at-20/"
categories: ["Love, War and the Heart", "Slice of Life"]
tags: ["Art", "believe", "empty", "hands", "kenya", "life", "matatu", "Music", "nairobi", "never", "thing", "Videos"]
excerpt: ""
commentsCount: 1
---

I had initially planned to name this post 20 lessons at twenty years; that was way back when I was 19 and still eating food with a spoon direct from the <em>sufuria</em> like the savage I was. Now that I eat directly with my hands, I feel a lot wiser not to structure this post as 20 lessons since I am not entirely sure I can raise exactly 20 of them; could be more or less. Anyway, on September 9<sup>th</sup> twenty years ago my very beautiful mother gave birth to me as her first born, or so she told everyone. We haven’t found out if this is a lie yet. I feel like I owe the world a peek into a bit of the knowledge I have acquired so far (Well, I owe the world that and China a few coins but that’s beside the point). Or we could start with lessons one being that I need to learn Mandarin at this rate, so I could have an upper hand in case things go South. Or is it East? Well, I don’t know about cardinal points and coordinates since I decided not to study Geography. The rest is History. Haha, I’m not sure you saw what I did there but let’s move on swiftly.

Nobody owes you anything in this world. Scratch that, nobody owes you shit! The faster you learn that, the better your chances of having a level head at progressing in life. Not your friends, not someone who told you they will hook you up with an opportunity, not your boss. No single person owes you shit. No one ever loses their sleep at night because of your problems, except yourself. So do not go around placing high expectations in people because no one wakes up and does anything because they are thinking of you. Get your stuff together and hustle your way around things. This does not mean people are not kind. There is a lot of good folk out there who will go out of their way to help you when crap hits the fan but it isn’t something that they owe you. That said, you don’t owe anyone shit.
<h5>A friend of mine told me I cannot be a healer when I am an empty well.</h5>
Do not carry the burdens of other people unnecessarily. Be kind and generous but do not tolerate nonsense that doesn’t concern you.

Never compare yourself with someone who is in a worse situation if you want to make an upward trajectory. Humans have been conditioned to believe that you are in a better life if someone is having it worse. That if you are eating just one meal a day you should be grateful because someone hasn’t eaten in a week. That if you have one bad parent you should be grateful because someone else is an orphan. That if you are earning 20K a month you should be thankful because someone else is earning barely 100 shillings a day. Well, I call utter BS on that. If you want to see yourself make zero development then shine your way in mediocre comparisons. That doesn’t also mean that you heap unnecessary pressure in yourself to make things work for you real quick. Hard work is much underrated. Coupled with patience, working on whatever you have however small can take you to heights you cannot imagine. I also cannot imagine these heights and that’s why you need to trust me.

Religion is a very complicated issue that has no outright correct position. Most of us are in a certain belief system because that’s where we were born in. You cannot, therefore, judge other people because you think your religion is greater.
<h5>Just hold on to what you feel is right and walk your way.</h5>
You could have been worshiping a goat’s dropping for all we care and it would take a little brain-washing through a small holy manual that describes the omnipotence of goat droppings and you will be allover insulting other religions that worship cow droppings and calling it bull shit. Well, it literally is, but you get my point.

Education is the greatest thing that could happen to you. I’m not saying literacy or knowing how to say a few things or those lectures in Kenyan campuses where you just copy handed down notes through your life. I’m talking reading books far and wide, reading a Harry Potter Book, a Swahili novel, a sheng blog post, a great newspaper article, a New York Times opinion column, a book on space and time, Isaac Newton’s Principle of Natural Mathematics, the beginning of Buddhism, the Colonial History of Angola. I’m saying reading stuff that doesn’t concern whatever your area of career pursuit is. There are a lot of gems to find in the writings of humans.
<h4>Sex is important but supporting your friend’s craft is more important. Watch their YouTube videos, read their blogs, buy their art, listen to their music. It won’t cost you much.</h4>
Cabbage is trash because it’s basically just like eating grass that has been fried with tomatoes; leave it to the cows you idiot. <em>Chapati</em> and avocado are overrated, not to forget that thing you call pizza which is basically another <em>chapati</em> with tomato toppings. Kenyatta University guards are full of crap, and they really need to know that we are not at an NYS camp. Liquor in the form of spirits is poison and beer is just herbs soup. Do not say yes to Windows OS updates; they will either crash your pc or freeze some other functionalities. Do not use your phone next to a window in a matatu when in Nairobi CBD even if you think your window is made of wood. Never miss the exit at Roysambu because you will have to start a new life at Githurai. There is more theft in most parts of Nairobi way more than in Githurai. I’m saying, you are more likely to lose your stuff in South B as compared to Githurai.

The future is written in Code, literal code, and so find a way of getting involved in the technology space as soon as you can. Whether we like it or not, Reggae will always be the greatest genre of music and that’s why we say it can never be stopped.
<h4>You never hear anyone say nobody can stop Mugithi because we can literally walk into those bars in Kiambu and chase everyone out like Jesus did at the temple.</h4>
A man who can cook is sexier to everyone that one who can take a female out; go argue with your ancestors. Twitter is the greatest social media network because of the information, Reddit is second because of the memes and YouTube because of the vines. WhatsApp is however pointless and so is constant texting. Messi is a god and Sia is a goddess. Eminem is the greatest.

You don’t have to keep tabs with toxic family members no matter who they are; you owe them nothing. Traveling to new places is important, it is the best thing you can ever do with your money. Loving someone’s daughter is a great emotion, knowing someone’s daughter loves you with all her heart is the greatest human emotion.
<h5>Life is actually not short, it is the longest experience you will ever have.</h5>
Finally a gem from my dear mother; don’t worry when others think they are doing better than you, you are your greatest competitor.

&nbsp;
